---
title: 'Theming'
description: 'Learn how to change the look and feel of your blog.'
---

It is possible to change the look and feel of your blog by changing the theme. By default, Bloggrify comes with the "Mistral" theme, but you can create your own theme or use a theme created by the community. You can find some templates [here](/templates).

The theming system use extensively the [concept of layers](https://nuxt.com/docs/examples/advanced/config-extends) and [layouts](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/layouts) in Nuxt. A theme `extends` [Bloggrify](https://github.com/bloggrify/bloggrify) and brings its own configuration and components. 

## Structure of a theme

A theme is a Nuxt module. It is a folder that contains :
- an `app.config.ts` file. The `app.config.ts` file contains the configuration of the theme. 
- a `components/themes/MYTHEME` folder. The `components` folder contains the components of the theme.
- a `layouts/themes/MYTHEME` folder. The `layout` that can be used into each page. 
- a `content` folder. It is where you write your articles.
- an `assets` folder (OPTIONAL). It is where you put your images and other assets (css files, etc.)
- a `public` folder (OPTIONAL). It is where you put your static files (like a favicon etc.)

Each theme **should** have the following components (with the exact same name):

- `layouts/themes/MYTHEME/default.vue`: The default layout for all pages. Of course you can create other layouts if you want for specific pages (like the home page)

And then you can select the theme in the `app.config.ts` file.

```typescript
export default defineAppConfig({
    theme: "MYTHEME",
    // ...
})
```

## Create a new theme

To create a new theme, you can either:
- start from the ["Mistral"](https://github.com/bloggrify/bloggrify-mistral) theme. It is a simple and clean template. You can clone the repository and start modifying it.
- start from scratch. You can follow the [theme creation guide](/recipes/theme-recipe) to create your own theme.

This is a nuxt-application so you can benefit from all the features of Nuxt. You can use the [Nuxt documentation](https://nuxt.com/) to help you. But most of the time, you'll only need to modify the files in the `components` folder and the `app.config.ts` file.

## Supporting tags and categories 

If you want to support tags and categories, you should create the following layouts in your theme:
* `layouts/themes/MYTHEME/tag.vue`
* `layouts/themes/MYTHEME/category.vue`

These layouts will be used to display the list of articles for a specific tag or category. You can check the [Mistral theme](https://github.com/bloggrify/bloggrify-mistral) for an example.
