# Installation

## Easy installation

First, you need to create a new Nuxt application. You can do this by running the following command:

```bash
npx nuxi@latest init myblog
```

Then, you need to install the dependencies:

```bash
npm install @bloggrify/core
npm install -D sass-embedded
```

Then you have to explicitly say to Nuxt that you are using Bloggrify as an extended module. You can do this by adding the following line in your `nuxt.config.js` file:

```json
    extends: [
        '@bloggrify/core',
    ],
```

## Create a basic configuration file

You should have a default configuration file in the root of your project: `app.config.ts`. The file is however empty. You can read more about the configuration options [here](/introduction/configuration).

Then you can run the development server on http://localhost:3000 and start with the default template.

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm run dev
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn dev
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm run dev
```

::

Next, you can remove all contents from the `content` folder and start from scratch and create your own [content](/introduction/writing-pages).


## Alternative: start from an existing theme

To start a new blog with Bloggrify, **you can start from a [theme](/reference/theming)** to start with.

By default, if you follow the previous steps, you will start with the "Minimalist" theme. 

You can choose to start with "Mistral" or you can also look at the [other templates available](/templates).

Once you have chosen a template, you can start a new project with the following command:

1. Clone the theme repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/bloggrify/demo-mistral.git bloggrify
```

2. Install the dependencies from the root of the project.

::code-group

  ```bash [npm]
  npm install
  ```

  ```bash [yarn]
  yarn install
  ```

  ```bash [pnpm]
  pnpm install --shamefully-hoist
  ```

::

3. Run the `dev` command to start Bloggrify in development mode:

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm run dev
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn dev
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm run dev
```

::

::alert{type="success"}
✨ Well done! A browser window should automatically open for <http://localhost:3000>
::


## Advanced method, start from scratch

To do so, follow the [theme creation guide](/recipes/theme-recipe) to create your own theme.

